Come back and this video we're going to look at dictionaries and Python and in this lesson I will introduce
you to dictionaries.
Why do you need this.
Well you can save value assignments e.g. phonebook a last name has a phone number so you could create
a phone book with a dictionary.
You can change move or add elements later.
So it's mutable.
You really are going to need dictionaries again and again and generally when programming with Python
and we'll also look at a few examples later on in this course.
So let's get into it.
Let's create a dictionary first.
So in order to create a dictionary you have to use the curly brackets and then you have a key and a
value.
So this is generally how you have the values within a dictionary.
And then you separate them the comma.
So you have key one with another value then key to with another value.
Now those keys they have to be unique.
So it's important that they are unique but then they also have to be of a immutable data type such as
a string a number or a tuple.
So you can have only strings strings numbers or tuples as the key.
So for example I can have something like Dennis and then the value would be the telephone number so
something like 1 2 3 4 whatever.
So this could be my telephone number which is assigned to Dennis.
Now there can only be one dentist within this dictionary.
All right.
Then after the comma I would have the next entry within the dictionary so that would be something like
Frank and Frank would have a different telephone number and so forth.
All right.
So this is how you can create a dictionary.
So let's say we want to have a dictionary which contains the city name and the name of the associated
airport.
So when I say something like Berlin as me are associated to it by the way the value doesn't have to
be unique.
Right.
Your value doesn't have to be unique and it can be mutable.
So that's pretty cool.
Then the next city would be something like Helsinki and their name is hell not double l.
Then maybe Saigon will have as a g n sampler that and so forth.
So you could fill up your dictionary with a lot of well use.
So now let's check it out.
Let's print the dictionary and do doesn't exist.
It has to be low kept the once again and there we are.
So you can see the dictionary can easily be printed with the print function.
And let's say we want to print one of those values.
So if I want to have the value help from Helsinki Well then I need to print D.
And then in square brackets I need to enter the name of the key.
So Helsinki is the key name for that entry here.
So for this entry.
So if I print that as you can see I get hell here if you want to add a new value to your dictionary
then you can simply use the following.
You can use the name of the dictionary then in square brackets you enter the key name.
For example Budapest and you assign it's value which is but a or b u d.
And if we now print D once again so it's pasted down there as you can see.
Now my dictionary has Budapest at that point as well.
All right so how do you remove an element from the list.
Well you can simply use the Del key word and then tell which key you would like to use so which key
value pair you would like to delete.
And that would be Budapest for example.
Final print D once again as you can see Budapest is not in it anymore.
So how do worry.
Is there an element in the dictionary so let's say you want to check if there is a specific city name
in the dictionary and then just print something simple like if Budapest's is in is in D.
So we are just using the in operator again or in key word.
And then we want to print.
Budapest is included in the the Chuen there.
Great stuff like that.
And as you can see if I execute that it doesn't work.
So nothing happens pretty much.
That's because Budapest is not part of our list or dictionary here to be precise.
So if I for example check for Saigon in D and Prince Saigon is included in the dictionary and now execute
the code as you can see Saigon is included in the dictionaries print out.
So as you can see you can easily Querrey through dictionaries so they're super useful and powerful.
So you always have this key value pair and there are very many situations where it really makes sense.
I mean the word dictionary is already very explanitory for what this is.
You have one value for example the word in one language and then you have the other value which is the
word in another language.
So let's say Berlin although it's a bad example but let's create a D2 which has values such as car and
in German It's called out or then you have bike and in German is called fiat and so forth you know so
that's how you could use it.
Of course dictionaries as I said you're only assign one value to another and the key is unique.
So that's how you are limited.
All right so how do we access elements.
Well pretty simple print D.
And then we just simply say which key we are looking at.
And if I look at Saigon and I can get g in here.
Another way to access an element is print the DOT get Saigon as you can see.
I get as g here as well.
Now if I try to access an element that does not exist let's say I tried to access Hong Kong.
So de Hong Kong then I get this error here saying key error.
Hong Kong.
So you have to be super careful.
But the key is you're trying to XS is actually within the dictionary that you're looking at.
But if you use the other approach.
So let me copy this code here.
Does the that get function or method there.
I can use something like Hong Kong that will simply return if there is no value it will simply return
None.
So that's the cleaner way let's say so you don't run into an error.
If the element doesn't exist you simply get knon as a return.
All right so that was a little introduction to dictionaries.
And as I said we're going to use dictionaries a lot.
So check out this video once again if you feel like you need to see stuff once again or just play around
with the values and create your own dictionaries and play around with them.
All right so see you in the next video.